The President:
As the political
season heats up,
Americans are already being
inundated with the usual phone
calls and mailings and TV ads
from campaigns all across the country.
But this summer, they're also
seeing a flood of attack ads run
by shadowy groups with
harmless-sounding names.
We don't know who's behind these
ads and we don't know who's
paying for them.
The reason this is happening is
because of a decision by the
Supreme Court in the
Citizens United case --
a decision that now allows big
corporations to spend unlimited
amounts of money to
influence our elections.
They can buy millions of
dollars worth of TV ads --
and worst of all, they don't
even have to reveal who is
actually paying for them.
You don't know if it's a
foreign-controlled corporation.
You don't know if it's BP.
You don't know if it's a big
insurance company or a Wall Street Bank.
A group can hide behind a phony
name like "Citizens for a Better
Future," even if a more accurate
name would be "Corporations for
Weaker Oversight."
We tried to fix this last month.
There was a proposal supported
by Democrats and Republicans
that would've required corporate
political advertisers to reveal
who's funding their activities.
When special interests
take to the airwaves,
whoever is running and funding
the ad would have to appear in
the advertisement and take
responsibility for it --
like a company's CEO or
an organization's biggest contributor.
And foreign-controlled
corporations and entities would
be restricted from spending
money to influence American
elections -- just as they were in the past.
You would think that making
these reforms would be a matter
of common sense.
You'd think that reducing
corporate and even foreign
influence over our elections
wouldn't be a partisan issue.
But the Republican leaders
in Congress said no.
In fact, they used their power
to block the issue from even
coming up for a vote.
This can only mean that the
leaders of the other party want
to keep the public in the dark.
They don't want you to know
which interests are paying for the ads.
The only people who don't want
to disclose the truth are people
with something to hide.
Well, we cannot allow the
corporate takeover of our democracy.
So we're going to continue
to fight for reform and transparency.
And I urge all of you to
take up the same fight.
Let's challenge every elected
official who benefits from these
ads to defend this practice
or join us in stopping it.
At a time of such
challenge for America,
we can't afford these
political games.
Millions of Americans are
struggling to get by,
and their voices shouldn't be
drowned out by millions of
dollars in secret, special
interest advertising.
Their voices should be heard.
Let's not forget
that a century ago,
it was a Republican President -- Teddy Roosevelt --
who first tried to tackle the
issue of corporate influence on
our elections.
He actually called it "one
of the principal sources of
corruption in our
political affairs."
And he proposed strict limits
on corporate influence in elections.
"Every special interest is
entitled to justice," he said.
"but not one is entitled
to a vote in Congress,
to a voice on the bench, or to
representation in any public office."
We now face a similar challenge,
and a similar opportunity to
prevent special interests from
gaining even more clout in Washington.
This shouldn't be a Democratic
issue or a Republican issue.
This is an issue that goes to
whether or not we have a
democracy that works for
ordinary Americans --
a government of, by,
and for the people.
Let's show the cynics and the
special interests that we still can.